---
title: 'City Council &mdash; July 14th, 2022'
author: Tris Emmy Wilson
date: 2022-07-14
category: city-council
category-name: City Council

---

The first meeting of July, also the first meeting since Jackie Reed's death. Rest in peace.

The [agenda](https://huntsvilleal.legistar.com/View.ashx?M=A&ID=958038&GUID=3D29BFD9-41CE-42BD-A552-8D50F2706A7C) and [meeting video](https://www.huntsvilleal.gov/videos/huntsville-city-council-meeting-july-14-2022/) are available online.

Mayor Battle was absent from today's meeting (away on city business). In his place, someone put a bouquet of flowers and papered over his nameplate with "in loving memory of Ms. Jackie Reed." The first act of the council was to appoint Jackie Reed as "honorary mayor" for the evening (moved by Kling, seconded by Meredith, unanimously carried).

## Upcoming Events I'll Be Covering

* Board of Zoning Adjustment (July 19, 6pm, council chambers)
* Library Board (July 20, 4pm, downtown library, 2nd floor)
* Planning Commission (July 26, 5pm, council chambers)
* Human Relations Commission (July 27, 9am, online)
* City Council (July 28, 5:30pm, council chambers)

If you're at one of these meetings, feel free to say hi before or after the meeting.

## Upcoming Events I Won't Be Covering

* Planning Commission Subdivision Committee (July 20, 7:30am, council chambers)
* Railroad Authority Board (July 21, 12pm, Railroad Authority office &mdash; 119 Woodson St)
* Huntsville Utilities - Natural Gas and Water Board (July 26, 8:30am, Huntsville Utilities downtown office)
* TARCOG (July 26, 6pm, 5075 Research Dr)
* Huntsville Utilities - Electric Board (July 27, 8:30am, Huntsville Utilities downtown office)

Please contact me if you're interested in contributing by covering any of these meetings! (contact info is [here](https://tris.fyi))

## Of General Interest

**20j**: The Nashville Soccer Club is launching a [MLS NEXT Pro](https://www.mlsnextpro.com/about/) soccer team in Huntsville, after their 10-year lease of Joe Davis Stadium was approved unanimously by council. Highlights of the lease agreement include:

* The team is responsible for facility operation and maintenance, at no cost to the city
* The stadium operation team must accommodate other users, with priority given to school system sports teams on certain nights (and the school system does not need to pay a rental fee to use the field).
* The lease agreement alone will add $10 million to the city's balance sheet in the first 10 years.
* In addition, the city receives a facility fee for every ticket sold at a price greater than $10.

Hamilton mentioned that temporary paint technology means the field can be used for basically any game that works on a rectangular field.

The team is expected to take possession of the stadium next May.

## Public Comment

Agenda-related public comment started with 3 minutes of silence. There was no substantial agenda-related comment (one individual had questions about the legal authority Community Development uses during the notice and demolition process, however).

Chad Chavez noted that the speaker roster tends to get collected a bit too early during council meetings. (Council bylaws say that citizens may sign up to speak through the end of item 20; Chavez says the list was collected about 45 minutes in advance of this.) He mentions the [IRE's Golden Padlock Award](https://www.al.com/news/2022/06/the-secrets-out-huntsville-is-the-nations-worst-transparency-scofflaw.html) and describes this year's HPD annual report as much sparser than those of previous years (this is true, I've read the annual report and it is really lacking in actually useful information other than high-level crime statistics).

## Councilmember Comments

Everyone had some sort of memorial speech for Jackie Reed at some point.

Keith announced the [District 1 "A Cut Above" summer landscaping challenge](https://www.huntsvilleal.gov/is-your-yard-a-cut-above-join-the-district-1-summer-landscaping-challenge/).

Akridge:

* apologized for some rude comments she made last meeting about a citizen petition
* noted her attendance at the recent HPCAC meeting
* recapped her town hall meeting about Beirne Park; comments and ideas about the park can go to James Gossett, city parks and recreation director
* noted a recent investment in the North Alabama Homebuilding Academy
* noted recent work regarding refocusing the Human Relations Commission
* noted that HPCAC wants to go from 12 meetings per year minimum to 4 (sounded like they wanted to focus more on fewer topics, but the exact reasoning here was unclear)
* noted that MPO exists

Robinson:

* specifically mentions Jackie Reed's "legacy of engagement" and encourages folks to show up and hold their leaders accountable.
* noted her drop-in meetings are a great opportunity to engage on issues, the next one is on [August 8 at the South Huntsville Library](https://www.huntsvilleal.gov/city-calendar-event/district-3-drop-in-3/)
* noted her next town hall is on August 15th (doesn't seem to be on the city calendar yet)
* noted the Ditto Landing Riverway community listening session on July 28th at 4pm, at St. Thomas Episcopal on Bailey Cove Rd (can't find a link for this one)

Kling gives us a trash truck ordering update. It sounds like a total of 9 additional trucks &mdash; 6 boom trucks and 3 automated trucks &mdash; will be delivered by the end of the year, with the first scheduled to arrive in October.

Meredith:

* thanks Dr. Leslie Pollard, president of Oakwood University, for allowing use of the Community Health Action Center facility for the recent HPCAC meeting
* encourages participation in HPD's Citizens Academy and ride-along programs
* mentions the Regional Collaboration Initiative (can't tell if this is referring to TARCOG or something else) as a way council identifies opportunities for collaboration with neighboring government entities on more than just road infrastructure
* notes the upcoming Presidential Forum on August 2nd (doesn't seem to be on the city calendar yet); it's about diversity, equity, and inclusion

## Parliamentary Oddities

**12**: Mayor Battle was out, so Hamilton made nominations from the floor during the usual mayor comment period.

**15b** and **15d**: These two items are board appointments to the same seat. Initially, neither had enough votes to pass. After realizing that the bylaws for this board leave seats filled until replacements are elected, Kling moved to reconsider 14b, and Chase Allen's appointment to the Alabama Constitution Village and Historic Huntsville Depot Board, Place 7, passed in a 4-1 vote with Akridge as the only "no" vote.

**16a**: Keith requested that this appointment be voted on in the first council meeting in August.

**16**: Akridge nominated Lynn Troy (spelling?) to the Von Braun Center Board of Control from the floor. Keith requested that this nomination also be voted on in August.

**19e**: Introduced by Akridge, not by Public Transportation. Akridge wanted to revise the ordinance to require a dedicated employee to tend to horses pulling carriages during disembarkment and boarding only "if possible", instead of having a blanket requirement. Robinson successfully moved to postpone consideration of this matter.

## Other Notable Items

**9a**: Demolition of an unsafe property as a public nuisance. Usually these are routine, but a real estate developer spoke up about wanting to buy the property in question. Community Development and Akridge noted that if an unsafe property is brought up at council for demolition, it's way too late to buy that property and fix it. Hamilton noted that property sales are fully independent of any Community Development action, and the city doesn't necessarily have the authority to sell the property at all.

**9d**: Akridge mentions that Stan Smith, who was issued a horse-drawn carriage operator license, might be operating such carriages on private property (which explains the "streets and routes" language in **19e**).

**17**: Keith (I think? not clear in my notes) mentions that Huntsville Utilities will be giving a general update to council at the first meeting in September.

**19b**: Akridge asked why old vehicles were being disposed of as surplus given the extreme issues getting vehicles in this supply chain environment. Ricky Wilkinson, director of general services and fleet, noted that the repair cost for issues in these vehicles had exceeded their actual value or were otherwise deemed unfit for service.

**19d**: This could result in a significant pay bump during future promotions for city employees. The current pay system gives city employees a 5% raise target during any promotion event, even if the promotion would normally be several pay grades above their current level. This amends the pay structure to guarantee a 5% raise per grade increase. Hamilton says most grade increases are two steps or more. This ordinance also amends service anniversary dates for firefighters and police officers so that there aren't months-long pay disparities between members of the same academy graduating class.

**20o**: Council approved demolition of the (now vacant) Butler Terrace apartments to make way for the new Mill Creek Choice Neighborhood plan. Keith noted that council and city administration need to make a concerted push to actually get started on construction in this development soon. Kling mentioned that affordable housing needs to be spread throughout the city, and not just be concentrated in one area.

## Reference

### People

* **Keith**: Devyn Keith, city councilmember, District 1.
* **Akridge**: Frances Akridge, city councilmember, District 2.
* **Robinson**: Jennie Robinson, city councilmember, District 3.
* **Kling**: Bill Kling, city councilmember, District 4.
* **Meredith**: John Meredith, city councilmember, council president, District 5.
* **Hamilton**: John Hamilton, city administrator.
* **Wilkinson**: Ricky Wilkinson, Director of General Services and Fleet

### Organizations

* **HPCAC**: Huntsville Police Citizens Advisory Council, [link](https://www.huntsvilleal.gov/residents/public-safety/huntsville-police/community-resources/hpcac/)
* **HPD**: Huntsville Police Department
* **MPO**: Metropolitan Planning Organization, [link](http://www.huntsvillempo.org/)
* **TARCOG**: Top of Alabama Regional Council of Governments, [link](https://tarcog.us/)

### Notation and Disclaimer

Agenda items are in **bold**.

My interpretations / editorial notes are always in (parentheses), but not all things in parentheses are my interpretations or editorial notes.

Accuracy of these notes is not guaranteed and any reliance on them is at your own risk.

## Copyright

My work is licensed under [CC BY-NC-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/). If you are a for-profit news organization and would like to use my work, please contact me using the methods listed [here](https://tris.fyi).
