---
title: 'City Council &mdash; August 11th, 2022'
author: Tris Emmy Wilson
date: 2022-08-17
category: city-council
category-name: City Council

---

The [agenda](https://huntsvilleal.legistar.com/View.ashx?M=A&ID=958043&GUID=1D6004CC-96E4-4291-82EF-7332C93630CB) and [meeting video](https://www.huntsvilleal.gov/videos/huntsville-city-council-meeting-august-11-2022/) are available online.

All councilmembers and the mayor were in attendance today (for the first time since June). This was a relatively short meeting.

## Of General Interest

**21b**: On August 25th, council will be voting on an ordinance to donate land at the corner of Max Luther Drive and Memorial Parkway to Huntsville City Schools for construction of a career center for students. This site was originally going to be a mixed-use development, but due to zoning regulations it won't be possible to subdivide the site as the city had originally expected. A school board representative spoke on this matter during agenda-related comment and was very excited about the possibility (as was Shane Davis from Urban Development, who presented the ordinance).

## Public Comment

Dr. Angela Sommerset spoke again about her concerns relating to Huntsville Utilities' allocation of pandemic relief credits applied to purchased power bills from TVA. She has still not received a response from the board to her questions about this matter. You can find more information about this in my notes from [July 28](./2022-07-28.html).

## Councilmember Comments

* Mayor Battle: Stated that beautification awards were given out recently, and Oakwood University (in District 5) received the "best-kept property" award.
* Jennie Robinson:
    * Announced this year's Christmas event at Ditto Landing. That event will include a model train display and large plywood "Christmas cards" decorated by folks from the area who are willing to pay for them. Sounds like fun!
    * Announced that Ditto Landing River Trail is open, as well as a new multi-use path on Weatherly &mdash; I'm not sure exactly where this is, but it sounds like this path connects two trails (including Aldridge Creek Greenway) to create a 16-mile loop.
* Bill Kling: Described an instance recently where he worked with Huntsville Utilities to get out-of-country IDs accepted for non-US persons. Stated that "Huntsville is inclusive."
* Devyn Keith: Announced the upcoming budget work session on August 18th and acknowledged the City Hall interns present.
* Frances Akridge:
    * Acknowledged that there were "a lot of linemen here" (see below "oddities")
    * Requested that money be set aside for LIDAR speed detection equipment for the police department in the upcoming budget process
    * Wants to have a chat with the Mayor about "green infrastructure," to include a discussion of the Tree Commission, green spaces, tree protection ordinances, landscaping requirements for commercial zoning districts, and minimum parking requirements
    * Gave a recap of the recent HPCAC meeting (about the mental health co-responder program and police crisis intervention training more broadly)
    * Requested that Public Works be less cagey about sharing details of the ranking system used to prioritize road work
* John Meredith: Mentioned beautification awards given out recently and gave a recap of the recent Office of Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion forum.

## Other Notable Items

**20j/k**: The construction contract for John Hunt Park Championship Soccer Complex Phase II has been rescinded and given to another contractor after Gregory Construction Services was unable to obtain a performance bond in time.

## Parliamentary and Other Oddities

* About 60 Huntsville Utilities linemen were in attendance, and nobody seems to know why they were there. None of them spoke and there were no Huntsville Utilities items on the agenda.
* The meeting adjourned three separate times due to some confusion about who was registered to speak (see the above note about 60 linemen showing up).

## Reference

### People

* **Battle**: Tommy Battle, mayor.
* **Keith**: Devyn Keith, city councilmember, District 1.
* **Akridge**: Frances Akridge, city councilmember, District 2.
* **Robinson**: Jennie Robinson, city councilmember, District 3.
* **Kling**: Bill Kling, city councilmember, District 4.
* **Meredith**: John Meredith, city councilmember, council president, District 5.

### Organizations

* **HPCAC**: Huntsville Police Citizens Advisory Council, [link](https://www.huntsvilleal.gov/residents/public-safety/huntsville-police/community-resources/hpcac/).

### Notation and Disclaimer

Agenda items are in **bold**.

My interpretations / editorial notes are always in (parentheses), but not all things in parentheses are my interpretations or editorial notes.

Accuracy of these notes is not guaranteed and any reliance on them is at your own risk. For corrections, please contact me via email.

## Copyright

My work is licensed under [CC BY-NC-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/). If you are a for-profit news organization and would like to use my work, please contact me using the methods listed [here](https://tris.fyi).
