---
title: 'City Council &mdash; July 28th, 2022'
author: Tris Emmy Wilson
date: 2022-08-14
category: city-council
category-name: City Council

---

The [agenda](https://huntsvilleal.legistar.com/View.ashx?M=A&ID=958039&GUID=B793866D-EC28-4A96-9321-269675EF157A) and [meeting video](https://www.huntsvilleal.gov/videos/huntsville-city-council-meeting-july-28-2022/) are available online.

Councilmember Keith was absent from today's meeting (on personal vacation).

## Of General Interest

**8a**: After a ~30-minute executive session (non-public discussion including the 4 councilmembers present and the mayor), council unanimously voted to join a settlement between the State and opioid manufacturers (McKesson and Janssen). The state settlement agreement [totals $276 million](https://www.alabamaag.gov/newsviewer/e000276a-e011-4c6e-8d33-472bc01fcc31), although it is not immediately clear how much of that funding will reach Huntsville or what that funding will be used for.

**20h**: Council approved an amendment to the 514 Clinton development (at the site of the former Coca-Cola bottling plant). This amendment does not change the city's total capital investment amount, but does bind the developer to an additional $125m: this investment will include more retail and office space.

## Public Comment

Dr. Angela Sommerset spoke about two items. First, the roundabout on Old Monrovia that leads to Hunting Trail (just behind Providence) is in need of repairs, desperately enough that she thinks it should be excepted from the road repair grading system and special-cased during the upcoming budget process. Second, she spoke about concerns relating to ~$8 million dollars in pandemic relief credits applied to Huntsville Utilities' purchased power bills from TVA. Since Huntsville Utilities has increased electric rates during the pandemic, she wanted to know how these credits were allocated to expenses; despite asking the board of directors for comment in February, she hasn't received any information about this.

Andre Wilson spoke on concerns that council does not take appropriate action on comments, specifically speaking to Dr. Sommerset's earlier comments.

Sarah Coletti spoke about concerns relating to rapidly rising housing costs for renters, despite lack of service from landlords, inflation, and a stagnant minimum wage. She relayed comments from friends who were forced to move out of comments due to rising housing costs: that more income-restricted and affordable housing is necessary within city limits, and that developers need to work responsibly to ensure that rent increases don't outpace wage increases.

## Other Notable Items

**19f**: Akridge's carriage ordinance amendment failed after strong opposition from Mayor battle, who described it as too much of a government overreach.

**20e**: TIF 3a [is closing early](https://www.huntsvilleal.gov/mayor-battle-announces-tif-closure-highlights-benefits-to-schools-businesses/) after providing funding for development of North Huntsville Industrial Park.

**20m**: Council approved a contract for construction of a new wastewater treatment plant. Akridge and Meredith both praised the Water Pollution Control department's ability to build and operate plants at a low cost, especially given the supply chain environment. Shane Cook, the director of the department, described this cost as "$5.86 per gallon of capacity", but it's unclear what period of time this is over, or if this relates to capital expenditures or operating costs.

**20o**: Council approved a contract for software and hardware relating to surveillance camera systems for the police department. Hamilton stated that this contract allows HPD to integrate publicly and privately owned camera sources, along with other pieces of information, to provide a "common operating picture" at the NAMACC. (Note to self: privately owned cameras accessible in real-time by the police department could be an interesting thread to pull on later.)

## Reference

### People

* **Akridge**: Frances Akridge, city councilmember, District 2.
* **Meredith**: John Meredith, city councilmember, council president, District 5.
* **Hamilton**: John Hamilton, city administrator.

### Organizations

* **TVA**: Tennessee Valley Authority, a federal government corporation which generates and sells electric power in our area.
* **HPD**: Huntsville Police Department.
* **NAMACC**: North Alabama Multi-Agency Crime Center, operated by HPD.

### Others

* **TIF**: Tax Increment Financing district: a mechanism used by the Finance department to fund projects in an area through borrowing, with repayment of that borrowing from property tax revenue generated by that area.

### Notation and Disclaimer

Agenda items are in **bold**.

My interpretations / editorial notes are always in (parentheses), but not all things in parentheses are my interpretations or editorial notes.

Accuracy of these notes is not guaranteed and any reliance on them is at your own risk. For corrections, please contact me via email.

## Copyright

My work is licensed under [CC BY-NC-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/). If you are a for-profit news organization and would like to use my work, please contact me using the methods listed [here](https://tris.fyi).
