---
title: City Council Work Session &mdash; August 18th, 2022 &mdash; Budget
author: Tris Emmy Wilson
date: 2022-08-18
category: city-council
category-name: City Council

---

Attending: council, Hamilton, Smith, Davis

(PS) This is a listening session for staff - give us feedback on what you want included or not included in the budget
(TB) As always, we have more needs than funds to meet them. We (staff + mayor) are here to listen
(DK) Let's start w/ the 1990 capital improvement plan and move to 2014. Any thoughts on Calvary Hills + Stoner Field in this budget?
(JH) Stoner Field renovations - yes - those will be in this FY. Overview: The budget takes effect in October, it will take time to complete - just design alone could be 6-9 months. Construction contracts will come later and will still have to be approved.
(DK) Do you think there's going to be money for the master plan for Calvary Hills here?
(TB) We might not want to get into specifics here - the budget is very unfinished so far. We are here to listen, not to get into detailed discussion.
(DK) Well, those are the things I want to see included, then. Thanks for the work on Legacy Park.
(JH) To add on to what (TB) said - master planning projects takes longer than a project that we already know exactly what we want on.
(FA) Wishlist items - safety/security, infrastructure beyond roads, workforce development. 
* Police department
    * big enough to include LIDAR for everyone who needs it (to reduce speeding).
    * Pay scale grading in HPD to account for degrees.
    * HPD funding for non-traditional outreach - "through music and through theatre - hang in there with me" - this kind of outreach helps people see "both sides" of an issue.
* Also under security - mental health and drug addiction funding - significant increase to Wellstone's operations.
* "Green infrastructure" beyond just planting trees.
    * The Land Trust is green infrastructure - it's "restitution" for all the industrial development and annexation we've done. Private donations and grants are not enough to fund them. "Sister organization" to the city itself.
* Huntsville Historic Foundation has highlighted the contributions of Black folks and women more than "any other entity I know" - they need funding.
* Preserve and maintain / stabilize the railroad property near EarlyWorks.
* "Commemorative monument" to people who have contributed to the space industry - I won't vote to approve this until we have something that acknowledges the contributions of slavery to building this city. "We haven't done the basics." We need to acknowledge "the people who put this place on the map" and "maybe even the people ... we stole it from - the Cherokee and the Choctaw."
* HHA only devotes 3% of their budget to maintenance. There are 450 people waiting for a unit - we need to stabilize the few affordable units we have. I don't want HHA to be in the business of owning real estate long term, though.
* "Village Promise" - https://www.villageofpromise.org/

(JR) Won't get into specific district projects because I've already talked about them to Hamilton. Thanks to department heads for supporting projects as they come up. Here are items related to the budget as a whole.
* "Significant" COLA for employees. It needs to be sustainable over time - not a one-time bonus.
* HPD and Fire/Rescue funding. Public safety is a concern as the city grows. I know that recruiting is an issue.
    * Decreasing response times in West HSV - hard to do given the density there.
    * More patrol officers - recruitment and training
    * More funding for Wellstone and the co-response program.
* Paving, I'm sure Kling will get into this
    * The rating system works
* Alternative mode infrastructure
    * Sidewalks, curb + gutters to deal with drainage issues
    * East/West pedestrian crossings on Memorial Parkway
    * Rails to Trails - running parallel to the parkway
    * Greenways - about to finish a 16-mile loop from Weatherly to Ditto to Hayes Farm
    * Public transportation routes
        * esp to employment centers, and with extended hours so 3rd shift folks can use it
        * reducing loop times and maybe more transfer stations as a result

(BK)
* Road resurfacing - lane-miles continue to grow. We have a lot of demands but need to maintain a healthy level of service here.
* Sidewalk repair and construction - we've raised that to $800k from $300k - we should keep this
* Language access (interpretation) - Spanish especially
* Listen to department heads re:budget needs

(JM)
* Same deal w/ department heads - "wonderful to work with"
* Road improvements
    * Slaughter Rd improvements
    * Balch and Capshaw intersection
* Sidewalks
    * Specifically Balch + Old Railroad Bed
* Rec center in West HSV
* HPD salaries
    * Recruitment and retention would be "very helpful"
    * 4th precinct? haha jk unless?
* Significant COLA for city employees generally
    * Retention "and frankly, the morale of city employees"
* Stormwater management
    * Harbin Rd + north of Capshaw
* Expand bus service further west

(DK) +1 to interpreters - could be third party, could be internal. (Kling wants internal - doesn't have to be dedicated hire.) We need some kind of system
(JM) "Vitally important" especially to HPD + fire/rescue

(DK)
* Q for Penny - how much did we commit to Thrive?
* Developing stuff with HHA - we need to be aggressive and the best way to do that can often be the city purchasing new properties. We need more affordable housing.
* Re: monuments, VFW (Veterans of Foreign Wars) will meet with (council?) soon.

## Discussion on Mill Creek project

(JM) I'd like to see housing for people displaced! Hopefully in the area where they were displaced from.
(DK) Yes - now is the time, we need to take the lead by acquiring properties and committing to work closely directly with HHA.
(FA) When is the implementation grant likely to show up (for Mill Creek?)
(DK) Not yet - because we haven't committed to matching funds and planning. We need to resubmit a new plan before we get funding
(SD) To clarify - we received a planning grant and held listening sessions. "Choice Neighborhood Grant". We are working with Urban Design Associates (UDA) to lay out in detail how buildings fit together now. We can't apply for an implementation grant yet - we need to identify specific projects for that - but will be done enough for that before the end of calendar year 2022. Also, we can do this without an implementation grant - e.g. through a TIF. We just need to do it.
(FA) We need more funding to just stabilize the units that exist, or we'll end up with more properties that need to be demolished.
(SD) If some HHA/city land is purchased by a private developer - that will allow HHA to build more units with a big infusion of cash.
(FA) I was under the impression that private developers would own ALL the land.
(SD) 3 types of housing in this project - HHA owned, market rate, and median income.
(DK) The city needs to take the first step. "We're hitting all the markers" to get $30-50m from the federal government for this project, and we're doing this at the right time. We don't want to waste our planning grant (largest in the nation that FY)

## Others

(DK) Free dental clinic on Whitesburg?
(FA) Done by application. (They have applied, according to PS.)
