---
title: City Council - August 25th
---

Meredith is absent, Robinson is presiding.

15a/b require 4 votes

**6a**: Unanimously approved, Keith presenting an award to ~12 VFW folks. "helped out a lot of veterans [...] referring them to service organizations", "public events." Looking at "tomorrow's veterans." "More diversity" in the future.

Robinson: Maybe we will wrap up soon so we can all celebrate the #1 city award (in Courthouse Sq).

**7a**: HPCAC update: 100+ hours working with the community. Internal training, ride-alongs, review participation. Meeting reviews: thinking about running another SRO event. "Light turnout" for meetings despite "1-week media blitz" for ACT meeting. Promoting "strong community relationships." Academy training will now include a regular CAC presentation. "Ways to quantitatively capture" success stories in mental health work. IRB participation, "advised on improvements" but not given much detail here. Executive session for IA complaints - 5 citizen complaints this quarter were found out of policy. Deeper looks as "spot checks." Potential to amend funeral procession ordiance - 25 vehicle cap could be problematic. "Officer-involved incident" - "transparency is not immediacy" - "investigations take time." 

(FA): note about it being very important to pick the "right people" to serve on HPCAC
(DK): increase or decrease in complaints? (CAC): pretty steady. admin complaints are 1/3-1/2 of totals

**7b**: Citation in lieu of arrest authority. Canupp - Lanier Ford Shaver & Payne, PC is giving a presentation about changes in AL law.

* Arrest is basically always allowed. AL legislature has, since 1992, allowed some offenses to be cited without arrest. Class C misdemeanors of violations not involving violence, alcohol, or drugs.
* Huntsville's [Ord 93-275](https://library.municode.com/al/huntsville/codes/code_of_ordinances?nodeId=COOR_CH2AD_ARTIINGE_S2-1ISSUCOAPMUCOLIAR) allows many agencies to issue citations like this including police.
* HPD uses this and it's uncontroversially positive.
* New 2021 amendment allows for more offenses: any misdemeanors, any municipal ordinances, unless alcohol/drugs are involved, when the victim is a minor, threats of violence, handful of others. AL Code 11-45-9.1.
* Municipalities with full-time municipal judges can't use this process. We need to get a local state law passed for this.

Deputy Chief McCarver is speaking. This is a big problem for e.g. noise ordinance - cars playing loud music for example.

Trey Riley (city attorney) is speaking. He's showing [AL Code ยง 11-45-9.1 (2021)](https://law.justia.com/codes/alabama/2021/title-11/title-2/chapter-45/section-11-45-9-1/). 

(DK): de-escalation

(TR): other municipalities - Tuscaloosa, potentially. Not a lot of municipalities have a full-time judge. Birmingham, Mobile, Tuscaloosa, ..."it's like night and day" the way we handle business vs non-full-time judgeship cities. "Not a great amount of knowledge of the change". Other municipalities affected are issuing summonses and don't care...? so we are ahead of the curve on this one.

**9a**: Initial zoning. unanimous
**9b**: Initial zoning, unanimous. (BK): workforce development housing need is being identified and that's good
**9c**: Initial zoning, unanimous.
**9d**: Initial zoning, unanimous.
**9e**:

(DK): Why are opportunity zones identified in the amendment? (SD): For the sake of completeness
(FA): Density reduction? (SD): No - it might require redesign, but you can get the same density
(JR): Fitting in with the rest of the area
(FA): there's a place for difference
(FA): "those tricky developers"
(FA): could you have given us a red flag here? some "proactive changes"

unanimous

**9f**: is 18c
**9g**:

(PS): one individual - 372 only. (b) and (c) apply to all
(BK): why are these cases confidential, and are we following procedure for this?
(TR): we are required to treat these matters confidentially
(FA): pocketing sales tax since 1990 (!), making sure all action possible has already been taken to avoid this

unanimous

**14a**: $18m expenses

(JR): budget introduced on Sep 8, work session on the 15th. We need to be aware of retiree healthcare costs - it's increasing rapidly and will be $9m this year.

**14b**: Keith consolidates 14b-g, travel expenditures for councilmembers. Kling's isn't here, was waiting on election

**15a**: requires 4 votes since past expiration. unanimous

**15b**: same deal, unanimous

**15c-e**: normal ones, unanimous

**17**: Joe G from Utilities reminds us that FY23 budget will be presented on Sep 8

**18a-d, 19a**: unanimous

**19b**: (SD) presenting. 14 acres for a new school system office and career tech center. Retail options: introducing an option to purchase for a new nearby site. (20aj)

(JR): Meredith is supportive, wants a school built in west HSV
(DK): "north Huntsville is in a unique renaissance of growth"
"ripple effects" of our decisions - want to make sure we have the city's best interests at heart
(SD) "certain opportunities" where "we want to provide the right uses" for the community. Benefits: forced rezoning, plat restrictions, etc. "develop... in a way that will see [these sites] to be a catalyst"
(DK) we still want to be the #1 place to live in 10 years
(JR) great collaborative effort

unanimous

**20**:

20a-e,g,i,l-m,o-p,r-ag,ai are consolidated and approved

**20f**: (SD) Results of drainage study from ~1y ago in Five Points - more runoff nowadays, design already done.
(FA): not just for the new apartment complex. (SD): right, just accelerated it
(FA): is the developer funding any drainage? (SD): to the new culvert, yes
(FA): we are giving materials to the developer? (SD): to the contractor, due to supply chain issues
(JR): $2.2m cost - seems really high

unanimous

**20j**: change order for new City Hall, $1m, rock removal
(JR): are we anticipating any other major issues?
(RW): no, this foundation will be rock solid [laughter]

unanimous

**20k**: $573k, soils, water supply replacement
(BK): under budget? (RW): still under contingency, yes

unanimous

**20n**: HUD funding is contingent on environmental review - that's $4m in funds. unanimous

**20q**: (DK) is recusing, unanimous otherwise

**20ah**: Some fairly technical easement stuff

**20aj**: (DK) Do you feel confident that, if the opportunity arises [for development], that you can act upon in in this budget? (SD) Yes, it'll be reflected in the 2014 capital plan.

(FA) Does Publix want to be up north? (SD) To keep from violating a non-disclosure agreement, I will not answer that. Hopefully that leads you to your answer.

## Councilmember Comments

(TB) Happening now at the square: #1 place to live celebration. "continue to work to get better." thanks to dept heads. Greene St Market open until dark. Animal Services adoption drive on the 27th, 9am.
To councilmembers: if you are going to talk to employees downstream of department heads, contact the department heads first.

(BK) Thanks for reelecting me, long campaign. 5.7 miles per day of walking :) "really excited about the upcoming term"

(DK) congrats to Kling, "I think my mother was 2 when you started." congrats to Renaud for school board (4)

(FA) Runoff election announcement September 20 - Little/Yell. "It is very critical that you find out if any of those people think the 2020 election was stolen."

generally talking about the importance of council elections and what council does

(JR) I ran unopposed :) but still answered the questions from media orgs. Who do I admire the most in politics? people who run for office in challenging environments.

Hays Farm green space agreement - park! "real gathering space"

Road at Ditto Landing - for HSV utilities and potential restaurant development later

SD town hall

## Public Comments

Harold Kemp - "who do I look up to?" for the past 14 years it's been nobody. now it's you :)
"faith in democracy restored" after this municipal election

Andre Wilson - it's Andre Wilson.

* Transportation improvements are needed - specifically extension of hours.
* School supply funding
