---
title: 'Planning Commission &mdash; August 23rd, 2022'

---

1, 2, 4, 8, 9, 10

3 - 162 + 38 lots - unanimous

5 - 6 lots, CIP zoned, 134ac, cul-de-sac length to 936lf, unanimous

6 - R-2A, 23 lots, unanimous
* Ian brought up a stream being interrupted - but it's west of the lot and not being developed. There is a bridge modification but it's on the next agenda item. Berms were constructed as needed.

7 - adjacent development
* adjoining property owner - concerned about stream interruption and drainage issues
* CE reiterates that 6 berms were improved, new berm was constructed to slow water down, details future plans.
* developments will be connected Later:tm:

11 - Huntsville Utilities water pump - 30x34 - "secondary feed", unanimous w/ recusal

13a - off RPB north of Old Monrovia - consistent w/ surrounding, newly annexed, unanimous
13b - correction of really thin sliver between 2 R2 tracts
13c - R-2 to R-2B - adjacent to C4 - unanimous
13d - C-4 adjacent to Pkwy, R-2A behind it, adjacent to existing residential and near existing R-2 - unanimous
13e - 2 areas within an existing C-4 parcel. Adjacent to unincorporated Madison County property owner who was not notified, but plat restriction guarantees some buffer there. unanimous
13f - C-4 around Pulaski, R-2 behind that - surrounding LI is undevelopable and R-2A nearby
13g - C-4 but not developable, adjacent to existing R-2. Unlikely to have access from Hwy 72. Adjacent to some C6 and PI. Single-family development.
13h - secondary front yard setback - adversely affects a corner lot as is - unanimous. Seemed weird
13i - zoning ordinance amendment - article 24
* developer had comments about SFR/BTR without subdivision - would basically kill that market segment - asked about alternatives
* context from commission - developments that we don't like - unanimous

Apartments
1 - unanimous
2 - unanimous
3 - "non-allowable votes" in subdivision committee resulted in a tie. no lighting, questions about safety, road improvements, school access, ... that don't seem to have satisfying answers. deference to a traffic impact study that isn't really detailed. SFR with really poor connectivity. fails 4-4
4 - unanimous

Apartments for final
1, 2, 3, 4 - unanimous
