---
title: District 3 Town Hall &mdash; August 15, 2022
author: Tris Emmy Wilson
date: 2022-08-17
category: town-halls
category-name: Town Halls

---

This town hall meeting was the third of the year held in District 3.

Notes on this meeting were typed live and edited afterwards (a new format for me) so things may be a little rough. If you have feedback on this format, please feel free to email me!

## County Commission Update

(Phil Riddick - County Commission)

* Ditto Landing Christmas event &mdash; there is a press release and (JR)'s comments from last council meeting are likely relevant here. Intent is to be a replacement to other Christmas events which have been scaled back a lot. Will have lots of items: Christmas on the River: incl. plywood "Christmas cards", model train display, live tree sale, and charity event. There will be a few nights where driving is permitted on the greenway for folks who aren't comfortable walking. [Event link.](https://www.dittolanding.org/event/14/south-huntsville-s-christmas-on-the-river-at-ditto-landing)

Robinson said that "great partnerships" like ones with County Commission and Ditto Landing are what get things done in South Huntsville.

## Back to School Update

(Elisa Ferrell - Board of Education, District 3)

* 100% staffing at Grissom HS
* Buses are available this year for students more than 5mi away from high schools or more than 2mi away for elementary schools. (I'm not sure if this hasn't been the case in the past...?)
* ACAP (Alabama Comprehensive Assessment Program) - literacy test results will be released to the public soon after a quality control process is completed. Ferrell noted that the preliminary results show a strong correlation between literacy test scores and attendance rates (at least at a school level).

## Council Update

(Jennie Robinson - City Council, District 3)

* A new playground will be going up at the Sandra Moon complex (in which the South Huntsville Public Library branch is located), right in front of the library. I didn't catch a date on this.
* Folks want to know what's going on in the Sandra Moon / former Grissom HS building &mdash; answer: demolitions and construction. By next spring, construction should be complete enough to support office space in the building for 10 arts groups. Dressing rooms, storage space, rehearsal space, and library programming space will also be in the building.
* Outside: new landscaping, parking, walking path, and roads are being developed.

## "Economic Development 101"

This was the main focus for tonight. Shane Davis, the department head over in Urban Development, gave the presentation. Mayor Battle gave a few remarks beforehand, noting that we need to be able to "do infrastructure that keeps up with" our development, so we should focus on growing the city at "a measured pace...not exponentially".

I currently can't be bothered to write this entire presentation into prose, so you're just getting bullet points instead. Yay!

* Gives lots of credit to Battle for being the "leader of the growth that we've had"
* Facets of economic development - jobs, retail, ...
    * "targeted activities and programs that work to improve economic well-being"
    * "creating **new** opportunities and wealth" (emph mine)
* What about for a city? Industrial growth, residential development, retail development
    * Industrial growth -> "upward mobility"
    * Retail - "what our community is most excited about" - but "follows rooftops"

* "it's a [progressive] strategic plan"
    * "haves and have-nots" after the 2008/9 recession
        * high education/etc
        * service industry/food and beverage
        * obvious "missing middle"
    * intentional pivot to advanced manufacturing - "36k jobs" - averaging "$52k" salaries

* infrastructure investments - pretty vague on the details here initially
    * sure, roads, utilities, stormwater management... but what else?

    * $450m since 2014 in road improvements - $500m over the next 6 years
        * ATRIP - we're doing "the same"

    * lots of utilities we deal with - commercial network providers and publicly-owned water/gas/electric - have to coordinate and have a plan

    * "trusted relationship with landowners"

    * workforce development
        * we have to fill jobs - "make sure companies stay"
        * 2.6% unemployment is full employment nearly
        * supporting HCS

    * quality of life assets & "recruiting people to move here"
        * "we don't want you to choose where you live because it has quality of life [assets]"
        * 200 million invested in "QoL assets" since 2010
        * music audit was Shane's idea
            * result - ampitheater is the big one, but others

* risk-taking is necessary but we have to "protect the taxpayer"
* all of this is necessary _all the time_ to stay sustainable

* Huntsville's growth since 2009 has been much better than the US at large
* Focus on long-term growth

* Population growth: Metro population is 502k and has grown at more than 2x the rate of the US growth since 2000. 27% of Alabama's total growth since then

* Diversification - only 15% of Huntsville is fed. govt., and we're all throughout the city
* no such thing as "recession proof" but come on lol

* Based on permitting data - constant single-family growth and exponential-ish multi-family growth. We're moving into a more dense market
* "We're working on [housing] affordability" and are still cheaper than other cities - but not as much room anymore for huge subdivisions, usually 100 or 200 lots instead

* Online shopping has made it difficult to get retail development everywhere
    * Centralization too -- Amazon bought Whole Foods & the whole grocery industry lost 7% in stock value
    * Madison Square Mall story & having a vision: Mid City development, merging parcels, and finding developers

* Key takeaways
    * Continued investment
    * Selectivity in industrial recruitment
    * Quality of life investments - value additive - what are we behind on?
    * Workforce development
    * Affordability

Q/As

- future transit focus and probably BRT Soon:tm:
- mixed used development as a way to bring SF costs down - blending financing, etc
    - 5 "true mixed-use" in the pipeline
- trash pickup - doing all we can including private equipment rental
